Hypertext Transfer Protocol(HTTP) is the foundation of the World Wide Web, and is used to load web pages using hypertext links.
Http request is the way.
Http request is the way the internet communicates with other platforms such as web browsers asking for information to load a website. example,

The person initiates a request to the server by sending an HTTP request message, which contains information such as the requested resource and any additional parameters.
The server receives the request message and processes it, using its resources to generate a response message.
The server sends the response message back to the client, which typically contains the requested resource (such as a web page) and any additional information or metadata.
The person receives the response message and processes it, usually by rendering the content in a web browser or displaying it in an app.
The person may initiate additional requests to the server, this may be repeated if needed.


Each HTTP Requests carries a series of Encoded data such as
HTTP version type
A URL.
The HTTP method.
HTTP request headers.
Optional HTTP Body(request body).

What Are HTTP Methods.
The HTTP method tells the server what kind of action the client wants the server to take. The most common methods are:
HEAD
GET
POST
PUT
DELETE

 HTTP Request Headers.
HTTP request headers are additional pieces of information that are sent by the client as part of an HTTP request. They have a name/value format.

 HTTP Request Body.
In HTTP, the request body is the data that is sent from the client to the server as part of an HTTP request. The body of ana HTTP request contains any information being submitted to the web server, such as username and password, or data entered into a form.

HTTP Response
An HTTP response is the message that a server sends back to a client in response to an HTTP request. It usually consists of a status line, headers, and a message body


HTTP Staus Code

These are 3-digit codes most ofen used to indicate if a request is successful or not.

The status Codes are broken into the following 5 blocks.
1xx informational
2xx Success
3xx Redirection
4xx Client Error
5xx Server Error

The "xx" refers to different numbers between 00 to 99.

Some common HTTP status codes include:

CODE	MEANING
100	Continue
101	Switching Protocols
200	OK
201	Created
202	Accepted
203	Non-Authoritative Information
301	Moved Permanently: The requested resource has been permanently moved to a new URL.
404	Not Found : The requested resource was not found on the server.
500	Internal Server Error : The server encountered an error while processing the request.
